what's going on everyone in this video I
am going to show you a live example of
me taking on a table topics question at
my local Toastmasters Club if you
haven't landed on one of my videos
before my name is Wade Patterson and my
whole YouTube channel is about helping
you become a better more impactful
public speaker and if that's something
you'd like to accomplish please
subscribe to my channel turn on those
notifications so you never miss a video
and thank you so much for taking the
time to watch this video on taking on a
Toastmasters question so I did another
one of these videos in the past a live
example of me answering a table topics
question at my local Toastmasters Club
that video should pop up in the corner
so you can check that one out as well if
you want a little bit of variety but
like that video I need to add a little
bit of context about the question
because in my answer what you're going
to see in a second is that I sometimes
diverge away from what the actual
question is asking in order to speak for
a minute to two minutes because let's
face it that is the purpose of a table
topics answer is that you need to stand
up for one to two minutes and deliver a
response now of course ideally you want
to answer the question or what's kind of
related to it but the reason I give
context for this one is because it's
important in knowing what my answer was
and so the question was based on the 90s
TV show Fear Factor if I had the
opportunity to be in a pit with spiders
snakes or beetles which one of those
would I have chosen and you'll see my
answer goes in a little bit of a
different direction I tried to
incorporate a little bit of humor so
let's take a look at my live response
and then we'll come back and analyze how
I did thank you for the question Madam
tabletop Master fellow Toastmasters here
in person and on Zoom I believe the
television show that you're referencing
is Fear Factor which is a 90s reality TV
show where you had all sorts of
challenging things to do and at the time
being 10 years old I probably wouldn't
have done any of those things however
given the knowledge that I have now
about the power of appearing on reality
TV and making an impact and knowing that
Joe Rogan the host of Fear Factor would
go on to be one of the greatest
podcasters I would have gladly done any
of those things and made my mark as the
greatest fear factor contestant ever
because I feel like it would have given
me a lot of future advantages in life
challenges like touching a spider or a
snake are things that I really struggle
with just like the challenges of bungee
jumping or Heights those physical things
I'm much better at some of the other
examples of risk that our Toastmaster
was mentioning earlier in the meeting
things like speculative risk or
other forms because there's some form of
advantage and I think sometimes in life
the biggest risk is not taking a risk at
all thank you for the question
excellent answer
all right there you have it there was my
answer so let's talk about what I did
well and what I maybe could have
improved upon in this answer the first
thing I did well is that I got through
the response as I mentioned earlier
table topics is all about standing up
for one to two minutes and delivering a
response and it is difficult because if
you're unfamiliar with table topics and
Toastmasters you are asked a question
and then the audience starts clapping
and you have to come to the front of the
room and deliver a response on the spot
and that can be an intimidating process
because you can't plan for what a table
topics question is all about however I
did that mission accomplished I got
through the question I responded I think
it was one minute 30 seconds on my
answer that's right in The Sweet Spot of
how long you want to speak for so that's
the first thing I did well the second
thing I did well was taking a creative
or a unique approach so even though the
question was would I rather be in the
pit with spiders or snakes or beetles
I sort of forgot about what that
question was but I tied in the idea that
hey Fear Factor was hosted by Joe Rogan
who's an incredibly popular figure and
so if I had made my mark on that show in
the 90s that would have been fantastic
because those were the early days of
reality TV and that might have projected
me to have a career doing something in
that vein and so by taking that approach
I thought it was a creative unique use
of my opportunity to speak I also got a
little bit of laughter from the audience
so I thought that that was an overall
positive job although I have to say in
terms of every table topics answer I've
given this definitely wasn't my best but
it was not bad I think I did a decent
job so how could I have done better
answering this table topics question
well the first thing we've talked about
I could have been a little bit more
direct and actually answered the
question that was asked with regard
regard to which of those three would I
have chosen and for the record The
Beatles for sure because snakes and
spiders seem like they can probably kill
you whereas beetles are just a little
bit gross so that probably would have
been my my decision if I actually
answered the question the second thing I
could have done better is incorporating
the word of the day the word in that
Toastmasters meeting was anecdote or
anecdotal and there was a great
opportunity with what I was talking
about to inject that word but I failed
to do so and as a Toastmaster anytime
you get the opportunity to use the word
of the day which is provided by the
grammarian you should really try to
incorporate that in your speech that was
one area I failed the last thing I could
have done a bit better in terms of
answering this question is having a bit
more structure so I had a creative
answer at the beginning but then I
noticed I hadn't hit the green light
which is the minimum amount of time one
minute and so I started to talk about
the idea of physical risks the theme of
the meaning was risks and versus things
like
speculation and risk on the financial
side but it was a bit disjointed and
especially going from talking about Fear
Factor to then transitioning it wasn't
as clear and coherent as an answer as I
would have liked however I thought the
concluding sentence talking about things
I did well the idea that the biggest
risk in life is not taking any risks at
all was a nice way to end my table
topics answer but it would have been
good if I would have started the speech
with that because I've talked about the
power of bringing a speech full circle
so if I would open my answer with that
line then talked about Fear Factor and
all those other things and then ended it
by repeating the greatest risk in life
is not taking any risks at all I think
that would have had a bigger impact on
the audience in terms of what the table
topics evaluator said well guess what I
was the table topics evaluator for that
meeting which is part of the reason I
was caught a little off guard with the
question although I our meeting
attendance on this particular day was
small so I figured there probably would
be a question coming my way so what do I
say I've already given my feedback of
what I think I did well and didn't do
well I believe I made a joke to our
Toastmasters Club that I did a good job
avoiding the question so that's the
feedback I got from myself who is the
table topics evaluator and the feedback
from the awe counter was that I didn't
have any odds or ums at least that she
caught in that meeting maybe you just
watched that response and you caught
something if you did let me know in the
comments I'm always trying to remove
those filler words from my speech but
overall I hope that this has been a good
example of how to take on a table topics
answer would love to hear your thoughts
and feedback of how I did my purpose of
putting these videos out is to give you
confidence that these answers don't have
to be perfect but they're examples of
how I've taken them on and I'm always
looking to improve in this area
spontaneous speaking things that you
can't prepare for that is a big
challenge I believe for everyone
certainly for myself but by answering
table topics questions it certainly
helps me to improve in these areas if
you liked this video please consider
subscribing to my channel every
subscriber means so much it allows me to
focus more time and energy on this
channel and regardless I hope to catch
you on the next video people are more
scared of public speaking than they are
of dying
is it just me or is that wrong hey
everyone my name is Wade Patterson and I
am passionate about impactful
communication my YouTube channel has
helped hundreds of thousands of people
improve their public speaking skills and
I am thrilled to release my first ever
course which has taken my decade of
learning about how to become a better
public speaker and boiled it down to
this theme of mastering the five
Essentials of public speaking I know for
a fact that if you can dial in these
five elements and perfect them you are
going to be a phenomenal public speaker
Head and Shoulders Above the Rest just
by being aware of these things by taking
the time to digest the information in
this course practice it and then put it
to action through your speeches you are
going to become a better public speaker
as a bonus in this course I sit down
with the world's greatest freestyle
rapper Harry Mack and one of the
greatest keynote speakers in the world
Sean kanungu and I get their tips
firsthand of what makes them incredible
at what they do if you agree that public
speaking definitely should not be
scarier than dying sign up for my course
you won't regret it